NOTE: this is a copy and paste from https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2019/02/15/the-revolutionary-way-of-using-artificial-intelligence-in-hedge-funds-the-case-of-aidyia/#591d4d1a57ca
accessed 21/07/2020

AI on Wall Street

Hedge fund companies use humans to build and train the original system but soon the system can use artificial intelligence to trade stocks entirely without any more human intervention. Companies trading or working toward trading with AI systems include San Francisco startup Sentient Technologies, Renaissance Technologies, and Bridgewater.

Market research firm Preqin estimates that 1,360 hedge funds use computer models to make the majority of their trades. While hedge funds have used computer models to help make trades, it’s the innovation of an AI machine having full autonomy and not relying on a data scientist for an assist that is revolutionary.  While models are helpful, unless they get updated as quickly as mark conditions change, they will diminish in performance over time without being updated to reflect new market intelligence.

Most Popular In: Enterprise & Cloud

Peacock Launch Puts User Experience At The Center Of The Streaming Wars
Dissecting The Twitter Hack With A Cybersecurity Evangelist
Improving Online Learning Experiences One Secured Endpoint At A Time
How AI Trades Stocks

Artificially intelligent machines analyze inordinate amounts of data at extraordinary speeds that is impossible for humans. They learn from the information they analyze to improve their trading acumen. This information includes market prices to corporate financial reports and accounting documents to social media, news trends, and macroeconomic data. Once the information is analyzed by thousands of machines, the machines then “vote” on what action to take and the best trades to make.

PROMOTED

Google Cloud BRANDVOICE | Paid Program
Compliance Without Compromise
Grads of Life BRANDVOICE | Paid Program
Youth Lead: Investing In The Long-Term Vision For America
Civic Nation BRANDVOICE | Paid Program
USOW’s Intersectionality Resources
Many firms use AI technologies including deep learning and one inspired by genetic evolution to power its AI trading team.

Deep learning helps train large neural networks to recognize patterns in the data and be able to analyze data in a variety of forms such as audio, images, and text. Today, unstructured data is a crucial piece of the puzzle and allows the AI systems used for trading to review news articles, social media posts, and other unstructured data to help inform their strategy.

Even though “past performance does not predict future returns” AI systems also use historical stock data to test their performance and learn from how the market reacted in the past. In a form of “evolutionary computation,” the AI determines the winners and uses their “genes” to create the next generation of trades. This process continues indefinitely, and the result is a smarter trader population. Eventually, this technology can be used to improve today’s deep learning capabilities.

One of the reasons hedge funds tend to use a variety of AI technologies in their trading systems is to avoid another company imitating their methods. If everyone would be able to use the same smart systems to trade and the unique recipe for success was realized, it would undermine the competitive advantage companies get by using AI to stay a step ahead of their competition.

The use of AI to trade stocks is certainly intriguing, but it hasn’t proven—yet—to be a resounding or guaranteed success. What is clear, however, is that the companies that are building AI systems to trade stocks have kick-started a new era on Wall Street.

Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website. 
Bernard Marr
Bernard Marr

Bernard Marr is an internationally best-selling author, popular keynote speaker, futurist, and a strategic business & technology advisor to governments and companies. He… Read More
Print
Site Feedback
Tips
Corrections
Reprints & Permissions
Terms
Privacy
© 2020 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.

